The next script that we're going to
write is called player movement.
So we wrote this component
rolling movement, right?
Why are we writing another
component called player movement?
Why don't we just do this in
the rolling movement component?
Well, the really cool thing about
unity is that we can get additional
behavior by composing these components.
We can put multiple components together
to get more complicated behavior and
it allows us to have reusable code.
You'll remember that we have
an opponent in this game,
the opponent also has to
move around somehow, right?
So our opponent is going to have the same
rolling movement script applied to it but
we're gonna drive that movement
direction vector in a different way with
a different script.
But for the player,
we want to do it with input,
we want the player to be in control
using the keyboard or gamepad.
so what player movement does
is it reads directional
input from the player in
a method called on move.
And it applies it to the rolling movement
component on the same game object.
So we're going to use that
movement direction vector from
the rolling movement component and
put input into that.
So let's switch back to Unity.
Let's create a new script in
the scripts folder, so again,
in the project window,
scripts folder, I can right click,
choose Create, and
choose C sharp script, and
I'm going to call this Player Movement And
hit Enter.
And then on the player game object,
in the inspector here,
I will drag over the player movement,
script, and maybe added as a component.
Let's do it another way.
We come down to Add Component.
Maybe it worked for you.
It's not working for me for
some reason on my Mac here, but
I can type in player movement and
it will add the script that way.
So Let's go open this player movement
script by double clicking on it.
And again there's some stuff that we need
some stuff we don't need we are going
to keep the Unity engine namespace but
deletes the collections namespaces.
There's another name space that we
need here though, the input system and
that's going to access the input
system package that I mentioned is
already part of the project.
So up at the top after UnityEngine,
I'm going to type using
Unityengine.input system.
So there it is.
And right now, you'll see that
it's grayed out in my editor.
And that's because we're not actually
using any methods or properties or
anything from that namespace just yet.
Now we need a couple of variables.
So while actually just one variable,
we need to access an instance
of the rolling movement class,
which is going to be that component
that's attached to the same game object.
And I'm going to call this
variable M_rolling movement.
For start, I'm just gonna
delete that first comment, but
I'm going to type my own
inside the start method.
And I'm just going to say that
we need to gather components and
in this case, we just need to gather
the one rolling movement components.
So M_rolling movements and we're going
to use that get component method again.
This time with the generic
type of rolling movement.
And we'll put that in angle brackets with
parentheses after the angle blackets and
end the line with a semi colon.
So we have our rolling movement component
now that's on this game object.
We don't need an update method,
so I'll just delete that.
But now we're going to type out
a special method that uses what's called
a callback context and
it's part of the input system.
So this is going to be a public
method with a return type of void.
So it's not going to return anything.
And we're gonna call this excuse me
on move not on movement, so on move.
And then the arguments to
this method will be of type
input action.callback context and
we'll just call
that context and
then open our curly braces here.
So what we wanna do is get
the movement vector as input and
apply it to the directional
vector within rolling movement.
So let's type that as a comment so
we know what we're doing,
get the movement vector and apply it
to the rolling movement component.
So, when you're using something
like a joystick on a gamepad or
you're using the arrow keys or
WASD on a keyboard,
you're only moving in a 2D plane, right?
It's not a vector three,
it is a vector two.
There's an x direction and
there's a y direction.
But there's not this
other dimension there.
So we're going to call this
vector two movement and
we want to assign context.read
value with a generic type vector 2.
Okay, and
this is going to be the callback method
that we call when we're
hitting arrow keys.
So we're gonna read the arrow keys,
we gonna come in as a vector 2 and
then we're gonna grab that as our own
variable that we can then use to assign
to rolling movements,
movement direction, okay?
Now movement direction is
in 3D we have a vector 2.
Right, the movement of this
sphere is in 3D space,
but we really only want to move it
along a 2D plane along the game board.
But it needs a vector three.
So we'll assign it a new vector three.
So we're going to use the constructor for
a vector three and
we use the new keyword to indicate
that this is a new object.
And then in the parentheses,
it's very simple.
We just need an x, y and z.
So we're taking this vector two
where should we put the x y and z.
Well, we really want it to move
along the x,z and plant or
sorry the x,
z plane because in Unity, y is up.
So we don't want to move the sphere up or
apply a force in the up direction,
which would be pretty difficult anyway
because we'd be fighting gravity.
We want to move it along the x z plane.
So we'll say movement.x, okay because
there is an x component to this.
We'll say 0 f for y or
a float value of 0 and
then we'll say this is a little
confusing movement.y for
the z component because a vector
two again.It just as x y but
we want to use that second value as
our z to move it along the z plane.
So that's it for
this script we can hit Save.
We can switch back to Unity.
And at this point you might be thinking
we can hit the play button and
we'll be able to use input and
move the player around.
There is one more thing we need to do.
So you remember when we added
the player input component that came
with some unity events.
We need to accept the input and
invoke that callback method
that on move method that we just
wrote using the keyboard events.
So in order to accept the input we need
to invoke the callback methods for
the move event on the player
input component, okay?
So we'll make the rest of these
events later on when we do Resetting.
But let's actually do that.
So I will select the player
game object here.
And it has the player input component and
under Events,
I will untwirl this little menu here and
then we want the player events.
So it's kind of nested here and then
we have the callback context for move.
If I hit the plus button here,
I can then add the callback context
from the script we just wrote.
So, down here you'll see
this little target button.
If I click that, I can choose from assets
or I can choose from scripts in the scene.
I want to apply the script
from the player game object.
So I'll select that, from the scene.
And then there is a function that
we wanna execute here, right?
So, under player movement, we want
the dynamic callback context of on move.
So now when we hit the play
button if everything went well,
we should be able to use
the WASD keys to actually drive
the direction of the sphere and
we're driving this using
physics All right.
So at this point,
you should probably hit Save in Unity.
You can do that from File, Save or
just hit command S or ctrl S and
that will save the scene and save
the work that you've been doing so far.